you probably know me already I'm famous
the world over but do you know my story
Brabant painted just as I remember it
that's where I grew up I was different
from the others
stubborn always in trouble at home and
at school things were better outdoors I
loved being out in the fields
do you know what you want to be yet well
I certainly didn't I was an art dealer
in Paris in London a teacher in England
a priest in Belgium I tried the lot
nothing worked out
my brother Theo my best friend had an
idea Vincent you're good at drawing why
don't you do something with that well he
was right I was always drawing and I
could learn how to paint there was no
time to lose
practice practice practice I was
unstoppable
Anton mouthed my cousin and a famous
artist taught me how to paint in oils I
got my first Commission drawing
cityscapes of the hague the train
station what a building all that glass I
wanted to show real-life nature the
lives of farmers what I saw as I felt it
that's what I wanted to paint something
good something with soul in it and look
there they are
they're weather-beaten faces in the
shadows sitting in the light of a small
lamp poking their calloused hands into
the dish of potatoes they themselves
have sown and harvested others didn't
think much of it
woman's nose looks like dice at the end
of a pipe stem hmm even Theo thought it
was too dark but I had started I was an
artist Theo I owe you so much when I
came to Paris I lived with you when I
wanted to paint you paid for my paints
and brushes and me I was insufferable
living only for my art late night
discussions with innovative artists like
Lautrec burn our gogo about contrasts
colors loose brushstrokes but the work
wasn't selling
I rarely had money for models so I'd
often end up looking in the mirror after
two years I was fed up with the city
I headed south to the light the colors
that's where I painted the colors of the
wheat
of the night
and the see which have many more colors
than just blue
green purple blue pink the sea changes
color like a mackerel skin
I looked around me and found beauty in
almost everything
even in these withering sunflowers
I had big plans for this yellow house
where I wanted to work with others to
create a new kind of art
but only my artist friend go gang came
South we had the most fierce discussions
about art what should you paint what you
see with your eyes or what you see in
your mind one evening things started to
go wrong I just wasn't myself anymore I
cut off my left ear I was sick I had
myself admitted to hospital but I didn't
stop I worked on like some kind of
painting locomotive and slowly I got my
life back on track in the countryside
just north of Paris with Theo closeby I
worked incessantly my head was on fire
my paintbrush swept back and forth until
[Music]
now you know my story the story of a
misunderstood stubborn man who wouldn't
give up a story about needing to do what
it is that you're good at so tell me
what are you good at